Add some more docs about packaging details and conda-forge releases (#48)
napari/docs: docs/developers/packaging.md

Creation is handled with `make dist` (as specified in our [`Makefile`][3]) and submission is done using the [official PyPA GitHub Action][4]. 
This workflow will also create a GitHub release. See {doc}`release` for more details.

### conda-forge packages

Once the Python package makes it to PyPI, it will be picked by the `conda-forge` bots.
The bots will automatically submit a PR to the [`napari-feedstock`][1] repository within a few hours. 
This is all automated by the `conda-forge` infrastructure (see [previous examples][16]).
We only need to check that the metadata in the recipe has been adjusted for the new release. 
Pay special attention to the runtime dependencies and version strings!

> We keep a copy of the feedstock's recipe in the `napari/packaging` repo, which is updated manually whenever a change to `setup.cfg` is detected. 
> Check the file `conda-recipe/meta.yaml` and make sure its `outputs` are synced to the `napari-feedstock` copy.

Once the conda-forge CI is passing and the PR is approved and merged, the final packages will be built on the default branch and uploaded to the `conda-forge` channel. 

> Due to the staging steps and CDN synchronization delays, the conda packages can take up to 1h to be available after the merge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to the staging steps and CDN synchronization delays, the conda packages can take up to 1 h to be available after the merge.
```

```{note}
Check {doc}`release` for more details about the conda-forge release process and maintenance tasks
```

### conda packages in the `napari` channel

The `napari` project also has a `napari` channel in anaconda.org.
We mainly use it to provide:

> - Nightlies built off `main`, uploaded to the `napari/label/nightly` channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Nightlies built off of `main`, uploaded to the `napari/label/nightly` channel.
```

- Release candidates, uploaded to `napari/label/rc`.

```{note}
The `napari` channel also contains the final releases.

> However, these are not meant to be used by final users (they should use `conda-forge`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, these are not meant to be used by end users, who should use `conda-forge`.
```

The releases uploaded to our channel are used to build our `constructor` installers (see below).

> Otherwise, we would have to wait for the conda-forge, which is only triggered by the PyPI release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Otherwise, we would have to wait for the `conda-forge`, which is only triggered by the PyPI release.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Otherwise, we would have to wait for the `conda-forge` PR, which is only triggered by the PyPI release.
```

* With `briefcase`, which takes PyPI packages.
* With `constructor`, which takes `conda` packages.

`conda` packages offer several advantages when it comes to bundling dependencies, since it makes very few assumptions about the underlying system installation. 
As a result, `constructor` bundles include libraries that might be missing in the target system and hence should provide a more robust user experience.

### Briefcase-based installers

[`briefcase`][5] based installers are marked for deprecation, so we will not discuss them here.
If you are curious, you can check `bundle.py` and `.github/workflows/make_bundle.yml` for details.

### Constructor-based installers

We use `constructor` to build the `napari` installers through the `.github/workflows/make_bundle_conda.yml` workflow, 
which only specifies the triggers used to call the actual workflow implementation under the `napari/packaging` repository. 
This repository stores all the logic and files needed to create the nightly `conda` packages and the `constructor` installers.

[`constructor`][6] allows you to build cross-platform installers out of `conda` packages. 
It supports the following installer types:

> * On Linux, a shell-based installer is generated. Users can execute it with `bash installer.sh`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On Linux, a shell-based installer is generated; users can execute it with `bash installer.sh`.
```

* On macOS, you can generate both PKG and shell-based installers. 

>   PKG files are graphical installers native to macOS, and that's the method we use with napari.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  PKG files are graphical installers native to macOS, so that's the method we use with napari.
```

  - mamba    # we add these to manage different napari versions
  - pip      # we add these to manage different napari versions
extra_envs:

>   napari-0.4.17: # this is the environment that will actually contain the napari packages

Reviewer 2: could we generate this yaml file using template tags to ensure that it will be kept up to date without manual interventions?

Author: Unfortunately this is not supported in MyST. [See warnings](https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/syntax/optional.html#substitutions-with-jinja2).

Author: Instead I added the term "hypothetical" to make clear we are only providing an example that is not meant to be up to date with the current version. Let me know what you think @Czaki

  - mamba    # we add these to manage different napari versions
  - pip      # we add these to manage different napari versions
extra_envs:

>   {{ 'napari-NAPARI_VER'.replace('NAPARI_VER', napari_version) }}: # this is the environment that will actually contain the napari packages

Reviewer: Alas, these won't work because they're in a code block.
I *think* it might work if you wrap the whole code block in {{ }} and quotes and then use string replacement?
Otherwise, I'm fine with this being hard-coded, as an example file.
Just in the leadin could be:
`Roughly, we will build this configuration file for napari 0.4.17:`
and then use 0.4.17
If the config changes in the future, we can update, but as an example it should be fine.
The other places are more important because a user could want to see them?

Author: Yes, you were right, it was left untouched. Changed it back!

The main OS-agnostic keys are:

* `channels`: where the packages will be downloaded from. 

>   We mainly rely on conda-forge for this, where `napari` is published. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  We mainly rely on `conda-forge` for this, where `napari` is published. 
```

  However, we also have `napari/label/bundle_tools`, where we store our `constructor` stack forks (more on this later). 

>   In nightly installers, we locally build our own development packages for `conda` without resorting to `conda-forge`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In nightly installers, we locally build our own development packages for `conda`, without resorting to `conda-forge`. 
```

* On macOS, the PKG installer does not offer a lot of flexibility for this configuration. We will
  put it under `~/Library/napari-<INSTALLER-VERSION>`, by default.

This means that if you install {{ napari_conda_version }} using the installer, the actual `napari` executable
can be found, by default, on the following locations:

> * Linux: {{ '`~/.local/napari-0.0.1/envs/napari-NAPARI_VER/bin/napari`'.replace('NAPARI_VER', napari_version) }}

Reviewer 2: It is really napari-0.0.1 not version number? As I have napari 0.4.17  bundle installed it store data in `napari-{version}/env/napari-{version}.

Author: Huh, true. I think at some point this was reverted ([see line](https://github.com/napari/packaging/blob/6f5fcfaf7b6c333644bfb3235e3028300d81ea40/build_installers.py#L120)). I'll update the docs for now, but when the update-in-place stuff happens, the current text is how it should be.

can be found, by default, on the following locations:

* Linux: `~/.local/napari-0.0.1/envs/napari-0.4.16/bin/napari`

> * macOS: `~/Library/napari-0.0.1/envs/napari-0.4.16/bin/napari`

Reviewer: This and above `napari=` could be kept up-to-date using the substitutions from #84 which hopefully will be merged shortly.
Just making a note.

Author: Nice! I'll wait :D

Reviewer: It's been merged 😜

Reviewer 2: so the substitution should be applied

> * macOS: `~/Library/napari-0.0.1/envs/napari-0.4.16/bin/napari`

Reviewer 3: I believe you can use

```suggestion
* macOS: `{{ '~/Library/napari-0.0.1/envs/napari-NAPARI_VER/bin/napari'.replace('NAPARI_VER', napari_version) }}`
```

   cross-platform shortcuts.
3. `conda` interfaces with `menuinst` to delegate the shortcut creation. Since this was only enabled
   on Windows, we needed to unlock the other platforms and rewrite the parts that assumed Windows
   only behavior. Surprise, this involved custom solver behavior too!

> Since `menuinst` is frozen together with `conda` for `conda-standalone`, every little change in any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because `menuinst` is frozen together with `conda` for `conda-standalone`, every little change in any
```

Very fun! So where do all these packages live?

| Package            | Source                                          | Feedstock                                          |
|--------------------|-------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| `constructor`      | [jaimergp/constructor @ `menuinst-cep`][9]      | [jaimergp-forge/constructor-feedstock][12]         |

> | `conda-standalone` | _Same as feedstock_.                            | [conda-forge/conda-standalone-feedstock PR#21][13] |

Reviewer: Can't comment there, but a few lines below there is:
```
Most of the forks live in `jaimergp`'s account, under a non-default branch. They are published
through the `jaimergp-forge` every time a commit to `master` is made. Versions are arbitrary here,
```
Should that be `main` and not `master`?

Author: Some of those forks haven't been migrated to use `main` yet 😬

Author: But yes, we can say `main` and it wouldn't hurt the docs.
